How attacks on Hezbollah wireless devices fueled a "new era" of war

People gather outside American University of Beirut Medical Center after people were wounded when pagers exploded in Beirut, Lebanon, on September 17.

Hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah ramped up significantly last week after twin device attacks targeted the Iran-backed militant group’s communications network, ushering in what Israel’s defense minister called a “new era” of war.

Last Tuesday, pagers belonging to Hezbollah members exploded almost simultaneously, exposing a massive security breach and demonstrating the scale of Israeli intelligence. A day later, hundreds of Hezbollah walkie-talkies detonated in a single minute.

At least 80 people have been killed in attacks since Tuesday. Most were Hezbollah operatives, but the casualties also include women and children.

Now, one of the world’s largest non-state fighting forces is reeling from the biggest-ever hit to its military structure, as well as the most visible Israeli infiltration of its ranks and communications infrastructure in its more than 40-year history.

The internal breach enabled the successive blows last week and sowed panic within Hezbollah, according to Lebanese security sources. Hezbollah has vowed to respond in “a battle without limits.”

Israeli strikes kill shepherd in Lebanon, state media reports 

A shepherd was killed and two of his family members injured in Israeli strikes in Lebanon early on Monday, Lebanon’s state-run National News Agency (NNA) reported.  

Israeli strikes targeted towns in the Bekaa valley, including areas near Wadi Fara, Bneit, Harbata, Wadi Shmastar, and Wadi Umm Ali, according to NNA. Strikes were also reported in southern Lebanon, according to the news agency.  

The Israeli military on Monday said it had conducted “extensive airstrikes” on Hezbollah in Lebanon, adding that it struck 150 targets. The military also urged civilians to leave areas where the Iran-backed group operates in the country, warning that more strikes will happen soon.  

The strikes Monday appear to be widest in geographic range simultaneously carried out by Israel in Lebanon since the outbreak of fighting with Hezbollah on October 8 last year following Palestinian militant group Hamas’ attack on Israel. 

Reports from NNA also indicated a strike in the Laqlouq mountains in Jbeil governorate, an area that is not considered a Hezbollah stronghold.  

